>> Steve Kinney: One thing that we haven't
talked about in this entire time is what
do we do about asynchronous code, right?
We have just been storing
stuff in an array.
And it's been blissfully easy cuz we
haven't had to talk to a server or
a database or anything along those lines
or local storage or anything asynchronous.
And one thing you might have been
thinking about which is I keep saying
redux is great.
It's just functions and
objects and objects just go in.
Okay, like how do we get the object to
the store if we're waiting on an API?
So the problem with redux, it's not really
a problem is that out of the box, it's
expecting everything to be what's called
a pure function which is stuff goes in,
stuff comes out without any side effects.
A side effect is basically,
if you do anything that was not passed in
as an argument in what you spit our,
your function is impure.
So if you console log,
you're writing somewhere else,
your function is now impure.
More importantly for us,
if you make a network request,
that is something that just
happened to be out of scope.
You just called it and you're using that.
You're no longer pure in this case.
And so redux actually, out of the box,
doesn't have a way for you to do async.
So we need to come up with a pattern for
doing this.
And so, we're gonna use
these things called thunks.
And when I say that redux doesn't
have a way for you to do async,
I wanna defend redux for a second which is
redux thunk was originally in redux and
they pulled it out of the library
because you don't always need it.
So it's not like they never thought
that you might need to use asynchronous
JavaScript.
It was in there, it just got pulled out.
So if you need it,
you can pull it back in.
But for the people who don't need it,
we didn't need it up until now,
you don't get it as a bonus thing, right?
And so the idea that we would have to do
asynchronous code was always in redux.
It's just a bonus thing
that you can add in now.
So what is a thunk?
A thunk is a function returned
from another function.
So we've actually been quietly
using thunks at different points.
When we use connect,
that returned a function.
That was technically a thunk.
Here's a very great illustration of
that which is the first function,
it's just a function.
When it returns a function,
that function we're going to call a thunk.
So why is this useful?
The major idea is that you're returning
this other function that's going to be
called later, right?
We want to execute stuff later, well when?
Hm, all right, we've been very
quiet about asynchronous code
because Redux only accepts objects, but
we might not have that object ready.
We might say, hey, I'm getting something
from the server right now, I don't have
that object for you, here's a function,
why don't you give it to the dispatcher?
And when I have something back
from the server, I'll go ahead and
finish this up, right?
And so we need to use this middleware,
cuz Redux out of the box is not ready for
this.
So the middleware's like, I'll take
that function, and I'll call it, and
I'll wait for that to dispatch the action.
So it's pretty easy to bring in, it's
just an MPM library called redux-thunk.
Again, it used to be part of Redux,
it was pulled out.
And it's a middleware that allows
a user to dispatch a function
Instead of just an object.
So now you can dispatch functions and
objects.
And the goal is that that
function that you dispatch should
eventually dispatch an object once
it hears back from the server.
So this is a normal action creator,
makes sense, returns an object.
We've seen this a whole bunch of times so
far.
This is a thunk action creator.
So there's a little more lines of
code here but let's talk about it.
So instead of returning the object
that gets dispatched, right?
Cuz we saw when we were
working with Redux by hand,
we said store dispatch and
we passed it this object.
So instead,
we're gonna pass it a function,
that will later dispatch the object,
so here we'll do this API call.
This could be $AJAX, it could be AXIOS,
it could be indexDB,
it's just a promise that we're going to,
it's gonna have all of our items.
When that resolves,
then we'll go ahead and
dispatch that event that
was previously synchronous.
So we'll make the API call, we've got
the dispatcher from the store, we can now
dispatch the event and that'll get sent
to the reducer and everything's golden.
And this is effectively what you
need to do to implement a kind of
very simple version of
asynchronous code in Redux.